Add check_my_repo blog post (#94)
saucelabs/saucelabs.github.io: content/blog/check_my_repo.md

---
title: (Ͼ˳Ͽ)...check-my-repo!!!
date: 2022-01-14T09:00:00+02:00
description: This is a text about open source, and everything you need to be proud of your repository. Because open standards ensure not only the quality and shareability of a project with necessary documentation to make it welcoming, understandable and keeping an ongoing clear communication. Most importantly, open standards guide technology development by gently enforcing space for diversity and equity.
author: 'Paloma Oliveira'
authorTwitterHandle: 'pcultural'
images:
    - /images/blog/check_my_repo_steps.png
tags:
    - open source
    - open governance
    - standards
    - diversity and equity
---

> This is a text about open source, and everything you need to be proud of your repository. Because open standards ensure not only the quality and shareability of a project with necessary documentation to make it welcoming, understandable and keeping an ongoing clear communication. Most importantly, open standards guide technology development by gently enforcing space for diversity and equity.

Reviewer: > Because open standards ensure not only the quality and shareability of a project with necessary documentation to make it welcoming, understandable and keeping an ongoing clear communication.

I don't understand this sentence

Author: Does this rephrase makes more sense? 

> This is a text about open source, and everything you need to be proud of your repository. In the text I argue that by using open standards, an open source project improves its quality and shareability, since such standards exist to foster better communication between creators and consumers of the project. Most importantly, open standards guide technology development by gently enforcing space for diversity and equity.

Reviewer: yes

> If you share my admiration for standards, optimistic that this common agreement is capable of making the world a little bit better; if you want to improve your messy project no one understands to make it more shareable; or if you just want to show off how cool you are because you have the most compliant repositories, this text is for you.

Reviewer: This is also a little difficult to read.  can you split it up into multiple sentences

## Open source as an ecosystem

> For some, open source is only a technical definition about code source that is open to copy, modify and distribute. Others may defend that, before you can even participate in an open source project, you must first learn to collaborate. That&#39;s because open source is not a verb nor one thing, it&#39;s an approach to software development, a workflow, a philosophy. Whatever your understanding may be, it is surely more than having a code publicly available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For some, open source is only a technical definition about source code that is open to copy, modify and distribute. Others may defend that, before you can even participate in an open source project, you must first learn to collaborate. That&#39;s because open source is not a verb nor one thing, it&#39;s an approach to software development, a workflow, a philosophy. Whatever your understanding may be, it is surely more than making code publicly available.
```

you may want to link to the OSI definition of open source here

> My personal definition is that open source is an ecosystem composed of technical things like code, but mostly of people. Just placing code on a public repository will not achieve the ideal of making it shareable, as mostly, being open means open to the &quot;other&quot; which is not me or clones of me. And this &quot;other&quot; should be able to be part of the project. But… how to include this other when you have no idea who they may be? This is where standards come into play.

Reviewer: I realize this is getting philosophical, but... instead of "I really don't know who might want to use or contribute to this", I think it's probably fair to say something about _audience_ here.  When you share your code, you (should) have some idea about who is going to use it.  What does this audience expect?  What are the norms in this particular community?  

The "other" lies at the edge of this audience, I think.  It's not that we've shared software for _everybody and anybody_, but rather the people who would be interested in contributing to the software should necessarily have _some_ common ground. And how you idealize the project's community will very much have an impact on the the diversity of contributors--if you focus entirely on "the code", your project may meet the OSI definition of open source, but you will likely have a homogenous contributor base.

Also (and a lot of people miss this) a project should have a well-defined scope.  Without this, you start to lose the "common ground" as mentioned above.

Author: Oinnnn this is so lovely!!! Can I quote you? If so, I would add this in between both paragraphs... and this will be the 1st chaoter of my PhD o_O

> As a matter of fact, even the Open Source Initiative, one of the most active organizations since the 90's in the education and promotion of non-proprietary code, although focused on a definition particularly concerned with legal licensing, includes aspects beyond the technical, such as "No Discrimination Against Persons or Groups". 
> Christopher Hiller, recognized developer within the JavaScript community, author of two books on the language and respected maintainer of key projects like Node and Mocha, mentions the importance of including humans behind the code by design. 
> When you share your code, you (should) have some idea about who is going to use it. What does this audience expect? What are the norms in this particular community?
> The "other" lies at the edge of this audience, I think. It's not that we've shared software for everybody and anybody, but rather the people who would be interested in contributing to the software should necessarily have some common ground. And how you idealize the project's community will very much have an impact on the the diversity of contributors. If you focus entirely on "the code", your project may meet the OSI definition of open source, but you will likely have a homogenous contributor base.

Reviewer: haha, cool.  maybe mention me as a fellow SL employee, and replace Mocha with Appium ;)

## Mitigating communication imbalance

> Human communication is hard. If just a simple linear exchange requires at least a sender, a channel, a message and a receiver, what about a message that is continuously being sent in asynchronous ways, into multiple senders, receivers, channels, across the globe, through multiple languages and codes (both programming and cultural ones) as it can be an open source project?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Human communication is hard. If a simple exchange requires a sender, a channel, a message and a receiver, what about a message that is continuously being sent in asynchronous ways, into multiple senders, receivers, channels, across the globe, through multiple languages and codes (both programming and cultural ones) as it can be an open source project?
```

also please break up the second sentence

> Clear information should be available for everyone in the open source project ecosystem, meaning, it must have ways to achieve the message to be sent and received asynchronously through the multiple players minimizing information imbalance.

Reviewer: may be able to remove this paragraph entirely, as it's clear where you're going with it

> When it comes to open source, ensuring that those outside your closest relations are on equal footing  in terms of access to information and ability to influence the project  foster collaboration principles, improve your project, and brings diversity and equity into the open source space.

Reviewer: this sentence was kind of long, feel free to use what I wrote here as an idea or w/e

```suggestion
Ensuring broad access to information and reducing information asymmetry fosters collaboration, brings diversity to a community, and ultimately improves a project.
```

> To minimize the information imbalance it is necessary to apply conscious measures in different scopes of project communication: procedurally, daily, and long-term.

Reviewer: might want to break this into subsections

> Procedural, as the name implies, is about the processes, the systems used. For example, maintaining a single issue tracker that is public and transparent, allowing any interested person to have open access to the issues identified by the project; having mechanisms for all participants to provide feedback or discuss possible new features; offering meet spaces that are public, scheduled in advance and recorded, allowing those who don&#39;t have access in real time to plan and follow up on decisions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Procedural, as the name implies, is about the processes. One example is a public issue tracker which allows anyone to view, comment on, or create new bug reports and enhancement requests.  Another is offering scheduled and recorded public meetings (in-person or virtual), which can then be published for anyone to watch.
```

> The daily communication is about the day-to-day aspects, such as the status of the project (proof of concept, in active development, deprecated, etc); how to submit issues, propose enhancements or new features, how to contribute, and so on.

Reviewer: this seems kind of like "procedural" to me

> Long term is the kind of information that guarantees the history and continuation of the project. Good documentation is fundamental to understand how the project has developed so far, where it has been, and where it is going. Documents include: the mission statement, concepts, goals, list of features and requirements, and an overview of the project&#39;s roadmap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"Long term" is the kind of information that records the history and promotes continuation of the project. Good documentation is fundamental to understand both where the project has been and where it is going.  These may include documents explaining project scope or goals, a mission, technical concepts, high-level overviews of functionality, low-level API documentation, roadmaps, learning materials, onboarding materials, project governance, team charters, etc.
```

> It may seem like a lot of work at first, but it will rapidly bring many benefits: facilitates new contributors onboarding, decreases maintainers&#39; work time, comply with open source licensing obligations, and protects proprietary intellectual property. Hopefully, it will help open source to have a diversity rate much more balanced than the 3%[^1] currently occupied by women.

Reviewer: > It may seem like a lot of work at first, but it will rapidly bring many benefits

Your statement does nothing to dispel that this is a lot of work.  😄   Maybe something more like "Just to be clear: this is a lot of work, but it will rapidly bring benefits..."

Also, I'm not sure where the IP and licensing mentions come from, since they weren't addressed before anywhere.

> Hopefully, it will help open source to have a diversity rate much more balanced than the 3%[^1] currently occupied by women.

I think we should be very clear (it is easy to misread this) that you cannot just use an automated tool like check-my-repo and say "well, the checks passed, so I'm good on diversity."  It takes much more work than this.  The tool is not quite a guide, but provides some guardrails on easily-identifiable problems.  But as you said yourself, OSS is about people.  We cannot code our way out of the diversity problem in OSS.

> Before you feel swamped… remember that open source is about community and support, this is why there&#39;s several different tools and templates available to help you in this endeavor.

Reviewer: not sure about "and support" -- what does that mean if not part of community?

again, referencing my previous comment, we should be careful we aren't promising too much

> One of such tools is [check-my-repo](https://github.com/saucelabs/check-my-repo), an automated web-app that daily checks the health of all its repositories. It will help you find out whether each of your repositories contains files that will facilitate the communication and security of your projects.

Reviewer: > One of such tools is [check-my-repo](https://github.com/saucelabs/check-my-repo), an automated web-app that daily checks the health of all its repositories. It will help you find out whether each of your repositories contains files that will facilitate the communication and security of your projects.

can it be scheduled to run at different intervals?  maybe needn't mention "daily"

> It will help you find out whether each of your repositories contains files that will facilitate the communication and security of your projects.

Does it do this, or the opposite?

## Check-My-Repo: automating repositories health verification

> [Check-my-repo](https://github.com/saucelabs/check-my-repo) is an open source tool created during my internship in the [Open Source Program Office at Sauce Labs](https://opensource.saucelabs.com/). It is an automated web application built upon [Repolinter](https://todogroup.github.io/repolinter/) that verifies the main necessary parameters to comply with open source best practices: from Readme to License. Automating this verification helps with maintenance, forwarding compliant software projectseasier to service, test, upgrade, maintain and contribute.

Reviewer: > It is an automated web application built upon [Repolinter](https://todogroup.github.io/repolinter/) that verifies the main necessary parameters to comply with open source best practices: from Readme to License. Automating this verification helps with maintenance, forwarding compliant software projectseasier to service, test, upgrade, maintain and contribute.

- maybe replace "comply" with "adhere"; nobody is issuing commands
- "open source best practices" might want to be "best practices for building inclusive OSS communities" or something, since it's kind of vague what the former means
- The last sentence doesn't quite make sense and has a typo.    maybe replace with "intended to be part of a CI workflow to avoid mistakes and regressions" or something

Reviewer: looks like the next sentence says as much; maybe this one can be removed, or changed to say something generic like "where feasible, automation reduces maintenance burden"

It is designed to serve you on a push of a button (maybe 4 buttons…) using GitHub Actions to daily check all of your repositories, displaying the results on a GitHub page under your username.

### Step-by-step instructions do have a check-my-repo to call your own

This will take less than 30 seconds… Are you ready?

> 1. Go to [https://github.com/saucelabs/check-my-repo](https://github.com/saucelabs/check-my-repo) and fork the repository

Reviewer: - you will need a github account.  
- screenshots will be helpful for those new to github.

> 2. Go to **Actions** tab, on your check-my-repo forked repository, and enable the workflows

Reviewer: are we sure they aren't already enabled?

3. Make sure **Verify Repos Health Daily** workflow is enabled

> 4. Go to Pages and make **gh-pages** as your source

Reviewer: is gh-pages automatically configured in a fork?

That&#39;s it!

> As action is set to run 00\*\*\*\* cron, meaning at 00 minutes past the hour, you will only see your actual results after this action runs. First results you will see are Sauce Labs default ones.

Reviewer: use backticks around the cron job def

{{< figure src="/images/blog/check_my_repo_steps.png" class="img-responsive" >}}
_Alt: Step-by-step visual guide about how to fork and apply check-my-repo to your repository_

### Explaining the rules

What the application will do is go into each of the repositories and check if certain files exist. If it doesn&#39;t detect a file, the missing file will be indicated in the list of missing files per repository. Described below are the rules, or files, that it currently looks for, explaining its main purpose and why each one is needed.

#### Binaries

> The security rule looks for binary files, executables and passwords, which should not be contained in an open project, for security reasons.

Reviewer: hmm... binary files like images are common.  executables are not

#### License

> Compliance with open source software (OSS) license requirements is necessary and complex. Most open source projects today use several components, each with its own type of license. Mixing these licenses can be legally complex. But ensuring what kinds of permissions you, as the project maintainer, want is essential in order for those who use your project to be able to make these combinations properly. It is also important to protect you legally.

Reviewer: - "use several components" may want to be "include dependencies on other OSS projects"

otherwise, it's unclear who is to "combine" licenses? the maintainer? the user?  

you might want to provide some offsite link to an overview of licenses, and what they mean. 

it's unclear what the rule actually does here

#### Readme

A friendly README and clear code examples will make it easier for anyone who lands on your project to get started. It is about knowing your audience and their needs. The [Open Source Guide](https://opensource.guide/starting-a-project/#writing-a-readme) reminds us that the README is more than just a set of instructions, it&#39;s a place to talk about the project goals, product vision, and roadmap, which serves as a compass to have a constructive discussion.

#### Changelog

> The main purpose of this rule is to make it easier for users and contributors to see precisely what notable changes have been made between each release (or version) of the project. While Changelog is a file, a SemVer, a semantic version, may be a better choice in systems with many dependencies. Doesn&#39;t matter what you choose, this makes it easier for people to understand the development speed of the project, or it&#39;s lack of maintenance. Check-my-repo searches if the project has a CHANGELOG.md file in the project root or if it contains a release tag on GitHub.

Reviewer: changelog and semver are not mutually exclusive.  many projects have both.  changelogs are a list of what exactly changed, and semver is just the version of the project.  may want to link to semver, or just omit semver from this paragraph.  

other reasons for the changelog include documenting breaking changes (and migration paths) and security fixes

#### Contributing

> A guideline saves lots of time from both maintainers and contributors. Eager contributors rely on this file to be their guiding hand. The more descriptive, with understandable and commented examples, perhaps using tutorials and other strategies considering different cognitive aspects of the possible contributor (while some people prefer text, some video, some audio...), the easier and faster it will be for your contributor to actively incorporate themselves into the project.

Reviewer: this should be broken up.  maybe instead of "considering cognitive aspects" you could just suggest a CONTRIBUTING.md as a baseline and encourage people to create videos or other walkthroughs

#### Ownership

> The main purpose of this file is to make sure that someone is put in charge of the project and to prevent it from being forgotten. Another reason is to provide a contact for potential contributors. When no one other than the original author has maintenance rights, continuation of the project through bifurcation can lead to confusion about the status and reliability of the project.

Reviewer: what languages does this tool support?  we should mention that

#### Test Directory

> Having tests on your project can avoid regresion, breaks and many other issues. A few reasons why testing is important: when bugs are caught in the earlier stages it costs much less to fix them; you add security; helps assure quality and digital confidence; which leads to users satisfaction. If your project has an automated test set, it will help to have changes incorporated into your project more quickly, easing the burden on reviewers and maintainers.

Reviewer: I'm not sure we can say with confidence that tests have a measurable impact on project security other than fuzz testing

#### Code of Conduct

A code of conduct establishes expectations and facilitates a healthy and constructive community.

> _When a project seems hostile or unwelcoming, even if it&#39;s just one person whose behavior is tolerated by others, you risk losing many more contributors, some of whom you may never even meet. It&#39;s not always easy to adopt or enforce a code of conduct, but fostering a welcoming environment will help your community grow._

Reviewer: instead of "some of whom you may never even meet" maybe be more straightforward like _you risk alienating potential future contributors_

You can read more about it at [Open Source Guide](https://opensource.guide/code-of-conduct/).

#### LicenseOnReadme

Although the license is valid in any format, as long as it is added to the project, having it in the main file ensures it will be clearly visible. So even if the license exists in a separate file it is important to have a mention of it in the README. Some projects add copyright and license on the first line of every file of the project.

#### Security

> A SECURITY.md is where a security policy goes, a place to instruct users how to report a security vulnerability. This allows users to easily report and maintainers to quickly take actions upon vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: re filenames, usually these are wrapped in backticks

#### Support

A SUPPORT.md file is used to describe how the project is being maintained and how responsible a maintainer will be on issues. It can include: how and where a user can get help and support, which communication channels should be used and what not to do to avoid communication noise. This file helps both users and maintainers to communicate to each other having their needs to get into the right channel.

Now imagine a project with all that. Will it help to build and keep a community? Will noise in communication be mitigated? Will it save tons of maintainers time to help people onboard and solve issues?

Have I convinced you?

> So get a check-my-repo to call &quot;my own&quot; and make your friends envy you for how beautiful and healthy your repositories are.

Reviewer: heh, okay, but maybe again we need to be clear that check-my-repo will only show you if there's some obvious deficiency.  to get to that beautiful repo, you need to put in some work!

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer: regarding the points you made earlier around open, transparent lines of communication, I think it'd be great to be able (where it makes sense) to reference those points in the list of rules above.

Author: hummmm I do not check for them though... thinking how to add it...

Creating and maintaining an open source project is very rewarding. Creating collaboratively is an incredible experience and has the intrinsic potential to take such creation into possibilities that one person alone or a small group could never achieve.

But working openly and collaboratively is also a challenge for the maintainers and a responsibility for the community to ensure that this space is equitable.

> Tools like check-my-repo help in a practical way with the maintenance of repositories by automatically checking whether projects comply with minimum best practices.

Reviewer: again, you may want "adhere" or some other word than "comply"

> But it doesn&#39;t have to stop there.

Reviewer: it shouldn't!

> There is a lot of work ahead as shown by the results of surveys on the health of open source communities, which end up reflecting the worst of the technology industry, since open source is usually practiced voluntarily in the spare time of its community.

Reviewer: do we have any links?

Author: Yes, in the footnotes.

That&#39;s why ensuring that these standards are used is so important for the continuation and improvement of a practice that has so much potential.

_\*This text is based on a talk for_ [_Pizza Python Hamburg 2021_](https://hamburg.python.pizza/) _https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hXKdtY8gHbs&amp;t=9240s_

> [1]: In February 2017 Wired magazine published the following article based on a GitHub survey, analizing diversity in open source https://www.wired.com/2017/06/diversity-open-source-even-worse-tech-overall/ . Although outdated, the article still reflects several issues still happening today. Recently, Linux Foundation together with several associations, including CHAOSS project, conducted another survey https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/addressing-diversity-equity-and-inclusion-in-2021-and-beyond/ , which shows several improvements related to diversity, equity and social justice awareness. Unfortunately the survey does not explicitly show in numbers if the 3% was improved or not, so, for now, we will still use it as a measurement.

Reviewer: analyzing.

also use markdown for links and consider using archive.org.  should probably link to CHAOSS, LF, etc.

rather strange that the linter didn't automatically fix the issues.  I swear I set something up.  how did you commit this changeset?

Author: I am lost in this o_O is [1]: not a markdown for footnote? 
What do you mean by that? "consider using archive.org. should probably link to CHAOSS, LF, etc." it is a LF research. Lost lol.
I committed via git...

Reviewer: - I mean instead of bare links (`https://...`) use markdown `[text](https://...)`
- may want to change the wired article link and LF foundation link to point to archive.org copy. up to you though
- link to CHAOSS and LF means exactly that. `[CHAOSS](http://chaoss.url)`

    - diversity and equity
---

This is a text about open source, and everything you need to be proud of your repository. 

In the text I argue that by using open standards, an open source project improves its quality and shareability, since such standards exist to foster better communication between creators and consumers of the project.

If you share my admiration for standards, optimistic that this common agreement is capable of making the world a little bit better; if you want to improve your messy project no one understands to make it more shareable; or if you just want to show off how cool you are because you have the most compliant repositories, this text is for you.

## Open source as an ecosystem

For some, open source is only a technical definition about source code that is open to copy, modify and distribute. Others may defend that, before you can even participate in an open source project, you must first learn to collaborate. That&#39;s because open source is not a verb nor one thing, it&#39;s an approach to software development, a workflow, a philosophy. Whatever your understanding may be, it is surely more than making code publicly available.

> As a matter of fact, even the [Open Source Initiative](https://opensource.org/osd), one of the most active organizations since the 90's in the education and promotion of non-proprietary code, although focused on a definition particularly concerned with legal licensing, includes aspects beyond the technical, such as "No Discrimination Against Persons or Groups". 

Reviewer: Maybe "free and open source software" instead of "non-proprietary code"?

> Christopher Hiller, recognized developer within the JavaScript community, author of [two books](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/7135237.Christopher_Hiller) on the language and respected maintainer of key projects like Node and Mocha, mentions the importance of including humans behind the code by design. 

Reviewer: ah, uh, those books are old, maybe just remove the links or mention of it 😄

>When you share your code, you (should) have some idea about who is going to use it. What does this audience expect? What are the norms in this particular community?

> >The "other" lies at the edge of this audience, I think. It's not that we've shared software for everybody and anybody, but rather the people who would be interested in >contributing to the software should necessarily have some common ground. And how you idealize the project's community will very much have an impact on the the diversity of contributors. If you focus entirely on "the code", your project may meet the OSI definition of open source, but you will likely have a homogenous contributor base.

Reviewer: formatting / quoting is weird here
